source: /markets/deals/us-senator-vance-asks-us-steel-rule-out-foreign-buyer-2023-08-17/
DealsUS Senator Vance asks US Steel to rule out foreign buyerBy Bianca FlowersAugust 18, 20233:07 PM UTCUpdated  ago[1/2]Steel workers at U.S. Steel Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, U.S., May 24, 2018. REUTERS/Lawrence Bryant/File Photo  Acquire Licensing RightsAug 17 (Reuters) - U.S. Senator J.D. Vance on Thursday asked U.S. Steel (CLF.N) to rule out a foreign buyer, in a sign that the emerging bidding war for the iconic steel producer could run into political headwinds.Vance, a Republican, said potential U.S. buyers for the Pittsburgh-based company should have priority because domestic steel production is an important aspect of national security."I ask that you consider the effects of any decision to America's industrial base and national security and insist that you reject any bids to acquire U.S. Steel or its assets from a foreign entity," Vance wrote in a letter to U.S. Steel CEO David Burritt and chair David Sutherland.A U.S. Steel spokesperson acknowledged the senator's letter but said in a statement that the company would not comment on their review process of prospective buyers.The company, valued at $6.8 billion, says it has fielded acquisition offers from other industry players, including Cleveland-Cliffs (CLF.N) and Esmark. Reuters reported on Wednesday that Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal (MT.LU) was also studying a potential bid for the company.Vance represents Ohio, where Cleveland-Cliffs is based.Industry analyst Josh Spoores said Vance's letter would not likely impact U.S. Steel's decision making."It appears to be political grandstanding from somebody out making a name for themselves more than any national security interest, said Spoores, principal analyst at CRU Group.The United Steelworkers Union has also weighed in, saying it would not endorse any buyers other than Cleveland-Cliffs.The union's endorsement is important because its collective bargaining agreement with U.S. Steel makes it a party in any buyout negotiations, though according to the company it does not have veto power.Vance was elected to the Senate in 2022 after winning the endorsement of former President Donald Trump, a Republican who also pushed for greater domestic steel production. Vance first gained notice as the author of the 2016 memoir "Hillbilly Elegy."Reporting by Bianca Flowers in Chicago; Editing by Andy SullivanOur Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tabBianca FlowersThomson ReutersBianca Flowers is an award-winning multimedia journalist based in Chicago where she reports on the backbone of the U.S. labor market. She covers agriculture and construction equipment manufacturing. She also writes about supply chains, food production, union strikes, and how the future of farming coincides with technological innovation. Prior to joining Reuters, she was a senior video journalist at Dow Jones. 
Contact: 917-631-5645