source: https://www.eaton.com/us/en-us/company/news-insights/news-releases/2023/eaton-to-add-nacs-connector-options-for-its-green-motion-ev-char.html






NEWS RELEASES
Eaton to add NACS connector options for its Green Motion EV chargers















July 14, 2023  













PITTSBURGH – Intelligent power management company Eaton today announced support for the North American Charging Standard (NACS), underscoring the company’s long-standing commitment to interoperability and open standards. New Eaton Green Motion electric vehicle (EV) chargers in North America will include the NACS connector starting in 2024, and the company will provide NACS retrofit options for its existing installed AC level two chargers. 
“The future is electric, and charging infrastructure everywhere needs to be predictable, reliable and affordable. Aligning with open standards is a must, and Eaton has a strong track record here,” said Irene Lam, vice president of innovation and technology for Eaton’s Electrical Sector Americas region. “We’re delivering breakout capabilities in EV hardware and software that adhere to open standards, enabling infrastructure that’s scalable and built to last.”





























Eaton already provides EV chargers with multiple connectors, including Combined Charging System (CCS), CHAdeMO and J1772 in North America.
Learn more about Eaton’s EV charging infrastructure solutions.
Eaton is an intelligent power management company dedicated to improving the quality of life and protecting the environment for people everywhere. We are guided by our commitment to do business right, to operate sustainably and to help our customers manage power ─ today and well into the future. By capitalizing on the global growth trends of electrification and digitalization, we’re accelerating the planet’s transition to renewable energy, helping to solve the world’s most urgent power management challenges, and doing what’s best for our stakeholders and all of society.
Founded in 1911, Eaton is marking its 100th anniversary of being listed on the New York Stock Exchange. We reported revenues of $20.8 billion in 2022 and serve customers in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit Eaton.com. Follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn.








Contact:

Hilary Spittle
+1.216.712.2005
hilaryspittle@eaton.com
Regina Parundik
Cobblestone Communications
+1.412.559.1614
Regina@cobblecreative.com





