source: https://www.eaton.com/us/en-us/company/news-insights/news-releases/2023/eatons-expanded-smart-home-portfolio-empowers-homeowners.html






Eaton's expanded smart home portfolio empowers homeowners to simplify connected device management on their terms















August 17, 2023








As home electrification continues to rise, compatibility and convenience remain key tenets of Eaton’s connected solutions portfolio
Brightlayer Home app to unite power management capabilities across smart breakers, Wi-Fi smart devices and, soon, EV charging to help reduce energy costs















PEACHTREE CITY, GA – The biggest changes to home energy systems in decades are underway as whole-home electrification and solar-plus-storage systems enter the mainstream. Intelligent power management company Eaton is helping homeowners effectively navigate current changes and those to come with a new integrated mobile app and new Wi-Fi wiring devices that give homeowners more options to view, manage and control energy usage based on their household preferences, lifestyles and sustainability goals.
The Brightlayer Home app provides an interface to Eaton’s Wi-Fi smart technologies, allowing users to easily view power usage for connected appliances, control connected devices remotely and make more informed energy decisions. Eaton’s expanded portfolio of Wi-Fi wiring devices are also compatible with Amazon Alexa and Google Home, including bilingual voice controls, to help streamline device management and empower homeowners to choose their preferred smart home system.





























“The proliferation of smart devices continues to deliver new levels of convenience and safety in the home, but the sheer number of options available can be overwhelming for the homeowner to manage,” said Paul Ryan, general manager, Connected Solutions at Eaton. “We prioritize interoperability to ensure Eaton devices are compatible with leading smart home systems and introduced Brightlayer Home to streamline the interface for managing energy throughout the home.”
Current trend data is showing a consolidation of connected devices in households across the U.S. with an average of 22 devices per home in 2022, down from 25 in 2021, according to Deloitte’s “2022 Connectivity and Mobile Trends Survey.” Through its smart home offerings, Eaton is expanding connected device applications for homebuilders, simplifying installation options for electrical contractors and helping homeowners enjoy the possibilities of a fully connected home. Eaton’s expanded Wi-Fi smart devices portfolio includes a Wi-Fi Smart Outdoor Duplex Receptacle – the first in the industry – as well as a Wi-Fi Smart Fan Speed Control.
Once a qualified electrician installs and wires Eaton devices, intuitive, step-by-step guides in the Brightlayer Home app walk the homeowner through setup via mobile phone. Users may choose the types of devices to add through a Wi-Fi connection, such as smart breakers, switches, dimmers, receptacles or fan speed controllers. Eaton will continue to introduce additional device connectivity over time, such as incorporating home EV charging station management. For smart breaker setup, Brightlayer Home prompts homeowners to name and note which loads are supported by each breaker to help them more easily identify energy usage patterns or to create schedules to maximize savings during off-peak hours.
Eaton is collaborating with organizations like Rewiring America, the leading electrification nonprofit in the U.S., to advance electrification education, awareness and action. The company’s continuing efforts to lead the energy transition through key sustainability initiatives include its Home as a Grid approach, which enables homes to become both producers and users of energy. Effective load control management and energy insights are critical components to navigating the energy transition, and Brightlayer Home allows the homeowner to better understand energy usage inside the home with real-time and historical insights.
The Eaton Brightlayer Home mobile app is available on iOS and Google Play stores. To learn more about Eaton’s smart home solutions and EV charging infrastructure, visit Eaton.com/smartenergy. For a full list of Eaton’s Wi-Fi enabled smart receptacles, dimmers, switches and accessories, visit Eaton.com/wifismart.
Eaton is an intelligent power management company dedicated to improving the quality of life and protecting the environment for people everywhere. We are guided by our commitment to do business right, to operate sustainably and to help our customers manage power ─ today and well into the future. By capitalizing on the global growth trends of electrification and digitalization, we’re accelerating the planet’s transition to renewable energy, helping to solve the world’s most urgent power management challenges, and doing what’s best for our stakeholders and all of society.
Founded in 1911, Eaton is marking its 100th anniversary of being listed on the New York Stock Exchange. We reported revenues of $20.8 billion in 2022 and serve customers in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit www.eaton.com. Follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn.








Contact:

Hilary Spittle
+1.216.712.2005
hilaryspittle@eaton.com
Kelly Propst
Largemouth Communications
+1.919.395.7345
kelly@largemouthpr.com





