source: https://www.reuters.com/breakingviews/spacs-cant-be-killed-2023-08-25/
NEW YORK, Aug 25 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The IPO market is beginning to thaw after a cold spell, and that has brought some special-purpose acquisition companies out of the woodwork. Although SPACs raised just $13 billion last year, this week produced a deal that looks like it could have happened during the heyday. From U.S. presidential hopefuls’ forays to a continued SPAC king’s virality, SPACs’ reach is a reminder that they are hard to kill.Blank-check companies that raise equity and later make an acquisition surged in popularity in 2021, when offerings brought in over $150 billion. This week, one of those SPACs bought Better.com, a mortgage lender led by Vishal Garg and backed by SoftBank Group (9984.T). It had all the warning signs of a questionable transaction – complicated insider dealings, a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation, and a controversial boss. Yet, it went forward, then promptly dropped over 90% on its closure.Although these structures have been proven to be problematic, this week underscores their reach. Presidential hopefuls Donald Trump and Vivek Ramaswamy have both danced with the SPAC movement. Serial blank-check lister Chamath Palihapitiya drew ire this week for his flippant reply on social media to a user accusing him of inflicting massive losses on shareholders while enriching himself. He finally admitted that, “some will work, some won’t." The question is when they’ll start to work at all for everyday investors. (By Anita Ramaswamy)loading(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)Follow @Breakingviews on XCapital Calls – More concise insights on global finance:Shein deal kills several birds with one stone read more GAM’s end game still has a way to go  read more India’s space startups are ready to blast off too  read more Lawsuits fighting diversity will stymie hiringKKR pours itself a thirst-quencher deal Down Under  read more Editing by Lauren Silva Laughlin and Sharon LamOur Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.Opinions expressed are those of the author. They do not reflect the views of Reuters News, which, under the Trust Principles, is committed to integrity, independence, and freedom from bias. Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab